Friday, testing, testing, testing.
Testing two, testing two, Friday two, Friday two,
testing. Test it. Testing, testing, Friday the
fourth. Testing, okay, testing.
This is Friday, October 5th. We're in the MSC, and I
have the honor of recording the memories of his A&M
experiences with Mr. Michele Halbuty, class of
1930. To introduce yourself, Mr. Halbuty, to
anyone that might hear this tape or read a
transcription, describe your family background
growing up. When did mom and dad come to this
country? Where did you all live? Where'd you go to
high school? I went to high school in Beaumont,
Texas. I was born in Beaumont, Texas on the 21st of
June, 1909. In nine months, I'll be 73 years old. My
parents came to the United States separately.
They didn't know each other until they met each
other in Beaumont, Texas. Were they both
Lebanese? Both Lebanese. They were born in
Lebanon. I had five, I had six children, five boys
and one girl. There's only two of us left. Two boys
and one girl left.
I came to... What did your dad do for a living? We
were very poor, extremely poor. He built a little
grocery store. He was making a few dollars a day to
keep the family alive. Were you all down in South
Park or in Beaumont? No, we were in Beaumont. Did
you go to Beaumont High? You were Royal Purple? I
went to Beaumont High, but we didn't have any
middle school. We went from the lower grades into
high school directly. What led you to dream of
going to college? Well... Did someone encourage
it? Did you think of it? No. Of course I thought
about it, but I thought about it because of a
reason. And when I was a freshman in high school, a
teacher got up and started talking something
about the universe. And it triggered something in
my mind that the Earth was more than 5,000 years
old, which my Sunday school teacher was telling
the class. So I went up to her and I said, Miss Emma,
how old is the earth? She said, I can't tell you,
Michelle. You're going to have to go to the library
and find out for yourself. I said, why can't you
tell me? She said, I won't tell you. You're going to
have to go find out yourself. I said, how? She said,
look in the books of geology. So I looked in the
books in Georgia, and I got so interested in
Georgia, I read all the books. And I found out the
Earth at that time was estimated to be 3.5 billion
years old, which is now 5.5. It took a while for me to
understand why she didn't tell me. And then I
realized that the Stokes trial was coming up. And
she didn't want to have anything to do with
evolution or anything to do with fundamentalism
or anything to do with creationism. And she just
didn't want to tell me because she was afraid she'd
lose her job. And I understand that pretty well.
And this is the reason why I became a geologist,
because I wanted to be a geologist. I didn't have
petroleum in mind. I loved the science. I still do.
Did you have some other important teachers in high
school important to you? No, I'm not going to get
into that because I don't remember. What led you to
come to Texas A&M? Why here instead of somewhere
else? I didn't want to come to Texas A&M at first. I
wanted to go to Oklahoma. I found out that Oklahoma
had a great geological school, and I found out that
that's where I wanted to go. But I had saved my money
selling newspapers, working at odd jobs, and I had
just enough money to register, and I figured that
that's enough. And when I checked the portfolios
and everything else, I found out that because I
live in Texas, I'd have to pay more money to go to
Oklahoma, and I said, I don't have it. So I started
checking on Texas A&M, and I had just enough money
to register at Texas A&M. So I decided I'd come
here, because I checked and found out that they
were going to establish a new science department.
And I figured that I could be involved in the
beginning of the science. How did you get over to
A&M? Did you come on the train or the bus? Train.
Came on the train. I landed over here at that old
depot. I understand they're going to reinstate it
or something. What did you bring with you? What
kind of gear? What kind of stuff? I just have a
small, small suitcase bag and I walked toward the
administration building and went into the
register and I found out I was $50 short.
And so I was determined I wasn't going to go back
home because I knew that if I did, I'd never see
another campus in my life. that I would have to work
to try to support the family. And so I inquired
about who would be of help. And I heard some
students say that Prexy Walton ran the
institution. Prexy Walton did this and Prexy
Walton did that. I said, well, that man must be big
enough to loan me $50. So I knocked on the door and
Mr. Williamson, who was his secretary, talked to
me and wanted to know what was going on, and I told
him. In the meantime, Walton stepped out from his
office And she held him up. She was doing this. I
didn't know what she was doing that for. So he stood
at the door and listened to my tale. And I told him, I
said, if it will owe me $50, I'll pay him back if it
takes the last shirt off my back. So he said, come on
in, young man. I walked in. He asked me something
about me, something about my family. And he said,
you came short. I said, no, I saw in the brochure
that I had enough money. He said, well, there's
some things that you have. He said, we support you,
and we do a lot of things for you. And so therefore,
you have to have $50 more. And I said, well, will you
loan me that $50? We talked a while, and he said, all
right. So he gave me two 20s and a 10, and I
registered. Then I worked for 25 cents an hour
during that whole year to pay him back, and I did.
What were your jobs? My main job was rowing and
cutting grass in front of the administration
building from one end to the other. And then I
solicited small jobs from people for cutting
their yard and cutting their roses and fixing
their lawns. Anything where I could make 25 cents,
I worked. And I had my grades, took care of them, and
I just kept working to get that 25 cents. What
dormitory were you assigned as a freshman? We were
in the shacks. And where were they? Describe the
shacks, please.
I don't know exactly what location, where they
were, but it's the shacks. You ought to know
something about the shacks. If you've taken
interviews, has anyone that you've taken an
interview with said that they were living in the
shacks?
Mrs. Rudder has told me a little bit about what Mr.
Rudder remembered. I don't know whether he was
young enough to be in the shacks. The shacks were
1926, 1927. Oh, is that all? That's all. Why were
they built? They were built to take care of people
that were coming into the university. I mean, they
had more students than they could accommodate in
the dorms. I don't know whether they did or not. I
have no idea. All I know is that we lived in the
shacks. How many were in your shack? I think there
were four. Four. And bunk beds? Bunk beds. Did you
have running water? Oh yes, we had, well no, there
was a common area, common area where you had, where
you had latrines
and water and even showers. There was nothing in
the room, nothing in the shack that you could be
able to wash your hands or brush your teeth or
anything. And who were your roommates? I don't
know and I don't want to talk about it. Describe a
typical day. What time did you get up and what did
you do when? I got up enough to go to classes and when
I got back I sat down and studied. Did you study in
the shack or in the library? No, in the shack. In the
shack? Did you and your buddies ever play any jokes
or do any... Oh, there were a lot of them, I guess,
going on in that area, like there was in any other
area. But hazing was very prevalent. Describe
that, please. They beat the hell out of you. That's
what they did. Sophomores, some of you ran into
sophomores that were all right. Then you ran into
some sophomores that wanted to take it out on you
for no reason whatsoever. And I had one, all he
wanted to do was beat me. And he did. And he did. And
bent over, freshman. So I went home that
Christmas. My mother came to the bed to pull the
cover on me, and she saw blood. And when she did, she
fainted over me and wanted to know why I was so
bruised, bleeding. That's how bad it was. Now did
they use boards or were they... Boards. They used
boards about that wide. And they used anything.
Some of them used coat hangers. This particular
sophomore He just gave me a lot of trouble. He said,
get a freshman, go steal me some eggs. And I had to
run over to the farm and get eggs and bring them in,
things of that kind. What would he do with the eggs?
Did he eat them? I don't know what he did with them,
but he harassed me to no end. And he said, I don't
like anybody from Beaumont. I don't like anybody
from Beaumont, Tyson. So I just took it because I
wanted to stay. And so I worked at the Spieser as a
waiter. And the last day that we were going to have
lunch in Spieser, I was carrying this tray of milk,
coffee, And I think it was honey and other things.
And I was just carrying it to the table. And I saw
this guy. And I guess the devil got a hold of me. He
said, dump it all over him. And I did. And he got up.
He said, I'll kill you, freshman. I said, no, you
won't. Not anymore. You bastard. Sit down. And
then I decided I'm going to do everything I can to
eliminate hazing in this institution. And when I
was a sophomore, I really worked. I went to the
officials at this university. I went even to
members of the Board of Regents. I told them that we
ought to stop this thing. And finally they did.
They did it the year that I was there. That's good.
Describe President Walton as a human. President
Walton was a wonderful man. He was very
compassionate. Otherwise, he wouldn't have
loaned me that $50. He took a chance on me for $50 to
him. Might have been something that he didn't want
to get rid of, but he loaned it to me because of the
way I talked to him. I told him, I said, you don't
have to worry about that $50. It'll be paid. And it
was. He was big man? What size? He was, yes, he was
about I would say 6'2", if I remember correctly. He
was kind of half bald in a way. Very delightful man.
And his secretary was so good. Now his office was in
the academic building? In the old administration
building. In the old administration building.
You know where that is? The one with the dome? Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Now that's called the academic
building. I didn't know. I just called it the
administration building from the time I got here.
Did students attempt to play any tricks on the
Waltons at their house? Not that I know of. Not that
I know of. Were you majoring in geology your first
year? They didn't have geology per se. They had
science. Yes, sir. And then I particularly
majored myself. I just went to the main libraries
and took all the books I could on geology. And then
the professor that was teaching me the science
knew that I was interested in geology and he helped
me. Who was that? Do you remember? I don't remember
his name. I think his name was Bert. But anyway, Dr.
Lonsdale came in when I was a junior, and he added
the department. He created the Department of
Geology. And then I decided that I was going to just
be a scientist, and I wanted to study geology. All
right, that first year, You got your job pretty
quickly. You worked mowing the grass and also at
Sabisa your first year. Had both those jobs. What,
Sabisa? You worked at Sabisa. Oh, I worked at
Sabisa. I worked at a restaurant called the Greasy
Spoon. Yes, oh. And I worked there for 25 cents an
hour. I was a waiter. I worked in a grocery store,
helping the man serve the people in that area. I
worked in every way possible. And earning 25 cents
was arduous. And they had a confectionery in the
old YMCA building. And I'd go in there, and I'd see
these people ordering thick malts. And they'd put
one ice cream and malt, ice cream and malt. And I'd
sit there, and I'd look at it. I'd say, gee, I guess
one of these things, I got to buy one. It cost $0.25.
And finally I saved 25 cents, and I said, now I'm
going to go get my thick bolt. I went to that, and I
said, what do you want, freshman?
Give me a sarsaparilla for a nickel.
I just couldn't spend 25 cents knowing how hard I
was working. Now, you went to class. In the
afternoons, you worked. I worked whenever I
could. I worked sometime at night. The
upperclassmen asked me to do something, go to the
library, get them a book, something like that.
He'd give me 10 cents, 20 cents, 25 cents. I just
kept every nickel I could possibly make. About
what time? I ran into old books at the end of the half
semester. There were books and I'd pick them up and
I'd sell them. The library then, was Tommy Mayo the
librarian still? I don't know. Professor of
English? I don't know. Was the library a pleasant
place then? Yes. Now what other kinds of hazing was
there in addition to the paddling? What else did a
freshman have to do? Abusive, abusive,
harassment. And there were some sophomores that
were, I think, a little bit vengeful for every
reason whatsoever. And they would get mad at
themselves and take it out on the freshmen. I've
seen them whip freshmen that did nothing except
they just wanted to get somebody to whip. It was a
bad, bad two years. Bad, bad. Do you remember
going, as a freshman, going to the football games?
Oh, yes. Describe that. I was working for a family
between here and Bryan. I was taking care of the
yard, and I'd go in there and work for the last hour,
four or five, from four to five, or five to six, or
even from six to seven if I could. I'd work two
hours, and she'd give me 50 cents. And then one
Saturday, I went over there early, and she saw me
outside. She said, what are you doing outside? I
said, show. I said, well, I'm going to work four
hours with you. I need that dollar. She said, I'm
not going to pay you today. You get back and go to see
that football game. She said, that's part of your
education. I said, I don't want you to be just
working all the time. I said, well, I have to. She
said, no, just you go. So I went and I realized what
she was telling me, that I have other things to do
besides working. And I did. Did you all march into
the game the way the Corps does now? No, I don't
think we marched in. We marched to speeds of uh-oh,
things like that, but I don't remember marching
into the game. Did you stand up at the games? Oh yes.
We did that regardless of that. Regardless of that
12th band and anything else, we did that because we
wanted to. What kinds of things did the students do
during the games? Same thing they're doing now.
Did anybody do any drinking during the game? No, I
don't think so. There might have been one or two,
you know, but it was never shown. It was never
demonstrated in any way. Were there many dates?
Did the Aggies have dates? Oh, yeah. Yeah, they
went to Navasota, Hearn, any place where they can
get dates. And a lot of girls came down for special
occasions from Ditton, which was that time. It was
then CIA. Yeah. And Brian supplied a lot of girls.
And we got along all right. Being in the military
school, it was the greatest thing that ever
happened to me because we were so poor. I couldn't
buy clothes, and when you passed the physical
examination and were accepted as a student, they
gave you two sets of uniforms, and that was clothes
that I couldn't have bought. And I loved the Corps.
I really loved the Corps. What did you like best
about the Corps? Well, I was learning something
about the military and also about the history of
the United States, the wars that have been fought
and the wars that have been fought elsewhere. So it
was an exhilarating experience just to be a member
of the Corps and be at A&M. I don't think we had, when
I was a freshman, I don't think we had 1,800, 1,900
students. When I graduated, I think there were
just a little over 2,000. Almost all of them lived
on campus? All of them on campus,
all in the cadet corps, except there was one house,
one dormitory, in which there were 40
students who couldn't pass the examination for
some handicap or something like that. And they
would accept them, put them in this dormitory, and
we referred to them as casuals. So they didn't wear
a uniform? No, no, no. But they were all boys? Oh,
yeah, absolutely. Were there any, in the early
20s, there were two or three faculty daughters
allowed to attend classes. Were there any girls
attending any classes when you were here? I don't
remember. Well, I bet you would if there were
girls. I don't remember. Dr. Ball had a beautiful
daughter. And Dr. Ball, he was a science teacher, a
biology teacher, I think. Funny, I can remember
him. And we became very good friends. And it could
be possible that his daughter attended some
classes. Now, were there faculty members already
living on the campus in the houses over here? Sure,
yes, yes. That's where most of them lived. That's
what I thought. And did students ever bother any of
those houses, any of their yards? No. No, that's
the thing about A&M students. You never saw all
that furrow and the disobedience and things of
that kind. They just didn't exist. I remember in
the 60s when everybody and all of the students all
over the country were were not only harassing,
but they were going against the institutions. And
they would have demonstrations, one
demonstration after the other. So some of the
students here decided they wanted to
demonstrate. And they got together and they
decided they were going to lead those who joined
them right outside to show their strength. Rudder
heard about it, and Rudder went over to, got an
opportunity to talk to all of them that's going to
demonstrate. He said, that's fine. I'm glad
you're going to demonstrate. He said, I'm going to
lead you right out of this campus, and you're not
coming back. So I guess you heard that story. I was
here at that time. You were? And I remember
sometimes he would say, in order to do some of that,
you're going to have to walk over this pot-bellied
president, and I'm going to stand right here. He
was a great man. I loved him. He was splendid. He was
splendid. I loved him. What was your core outfit?
Black Eye Company. Black Eye. Black Eye. Oh, I
mean, I'll tell you that. There were some people in
there that, they just, they were rowdy, you know.
They would do things and have a lot of tricks.
Describe some of those tricks. Oh, Lord, I don't
know. Did they do anything ever in the dining hall
to somebody else's food? No, you know what the
routine was since you've been here. Freshmen had
to eat under the table, had to eat their kush under
the table, all things like that. But Black Eye
Company, for some reason, had a reputation of
being a little rowdy and disobedient from time to
time, but it was a good company. right and when
y'all it was infantry when y'all fell out to march
to y'all march to sabisa for your meals then where
did y'all drill in the afternoon no well whenever
we were forced to drill because of the of the of the
program we drilled on the field on the drill field
oh yeah and uh uh did y'all use aggie terminology
did you have a fish old lady Oh, yeah, they had
fish-o-laters. And did you all have the slang in
the dining room? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, they had the
slang. Were there Kush questions? Kush was
dessert. But did they have Kush questions that a
freshman couldn't eat Kush unless he could answer
the question? Oh, they had things like that, yeah.
What was your favorite Sbisa Hall food? What did
you like best? Oh, I don't know. I was hungry. I was
so hungry, I ate everything. It didn't make any
difference. And then when I worked in this greasy
spoon restaurant, he gave me 25 cents an hour, and I
could eat one meal. And I ate chili and eggs,
because that's the best thing he cooked. Where was
the greasy spoon? In that area. Just Northgate?
Yes, I guess you'd call it that. Do you remember who
operated it? No, I don't remember.
Where did you and your friends go on a Saturday
night if you were going to try to have a good time?
Well, I didn't participate too much on the
Saturday night or Friday night or whatever it was.
I didn't have the money, and I refused to have
people buy me things. So I didn't participate too
much. Well, where did the other guys, where were
their favorite places on a Saturday night? Oh,
they had some places where they got beers or
whatever it is, but I never participated in that.
Was there a bootlegger in Brazos County? I don't
know. There must have been some. Did any of the
students have whiskey in the... I've seen
students with whiskey, yes. Because that was
during Prohibition, so. Yeah, I've seen them
with. I've seen some that were drunk, had gotten
drunk and had little problems. Did anybody get
kicked out of school for drunkenness? I don't
know. I imagine some were, but I don't know. As you
look back on that first year, what were the best
classes? What were the courses that made an
impression on you? Science. Science. About how
big was a class then? How many? Five, six, maybe
eight. And how well had Beaumont... When I took my
master's degree, there were only two. How well
prepared had Beaumont High made you for college?
How well did you do that first year? Oh, I did all
right in my high school years. No, but were you...
Were you well prepared for college? I was well
prepared for college because of my determination
and wanting to be a geoscientist. Where did you get
your slide rule? You know, I was looking for my
slide rule the other day, and I said, it's got to be
here, and I couldn't find it. I had two. I had one
about this big, and I had one about that big. And we
had some professors would give us a tolerance of
2%, 3%. And I had one that gave us a tolerance of 5%.
But we learned our mathematics. We used our slide
rule and we carried it. Everybody carried it with
them. It doesn't make any difference. God, if we'd
had the computers and what we had then, what we got
now. Some of the studies that have taken place, in
my opinion, are lackadaisical. They're not using
the brain like they should. Now, did you bring your
slide rule with you, or did you buy it after you
bought it? Oh, I bought it here. You bought it here.
Oh, yeah. Do you remember what it cost? No, no, I
don't, but I bought it on time. Was it new or used? I
know that my little one was used, but the big one
that I really needed, I bought new. And I made
arrangements with the people I bought it from, I'd
pay them back. Did you buy it at a place off campus,
or was there a bookstore on campus? It didn't have a
bookstore on campus. I bought it off campus. When I
got my ring, for instance,
I wanted a diamond put in there. Can you see it? Yes,
sir. Yes, sir. So I went to the jewelry store and I
asked him if I could have a diamond. He said, yes. So
he brought me some out. I asked him, how much is
that? He said, $10. I said, I haven't got that. I
can't pay that. He brought another one out, $5. I
can't pay that either. So we kept looking, kept
looking. He finally said, what do you want? I said,
I just want another.